##  Interactive 3D and virtual reality visualization for scientific images with sciview

Tutors:

- Kyle Harrington, kyle.harrington@mdc-berlin.de
- Ulrik Günther, ulrik.guenther@hzdr.de

Sessions: 	

- 2020-11-30 14:00 	 –  	2020-11-30 17:00 UTC
- 2020-12-01 08:00 	 –  	2020-12-01 11:00 UTC

For more details on the 2020 I2K workshop see: [https://www.janelia.org/you-janelia/conferences/from-images-to-knowledge-with-imagej-friends/virtual-workshop-program](https://www.janelia.org/you-janelia/conferences/from-images-to-knowledge-with-imagej-friends/virtual-workshop-program)

## Pre-workshop instructions

1. Follow the [Fiji installation instructions](https://docs.scenery.graphics/sciview/installation/installing-fiji), if it is not already installed.

2. Install the sciview update site using [these instructions](https://docs.scenery.graphics/sciview/installation/installing-the-sciview-plugin-for-fiji)

3. Getting required files for the tutorial **run this script** in Fiji. [TODO: setup this script that downloads all of the necessary files]

### Syllabus

<details>
  <summary>Installing sciview in Fiji from update site</summary>

  1. Follow the [Fiji installation instructions](https://docs.scenery.graphics/sciview/installation/installing-fiji), if it is not already installed.

  2. Install the sciview update site using [these instructions](https://docs.scenery.graphics/sciview/installation/installing-the-sciview-plugin-for-fiji)

  3. Getting required files for the tutorial **run this script** in Fiji.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Creating your first scene with basic geometries</summary>

  - Adding primitive shapes and meshes
  - Working with the inspector
  - Using the scene graph
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Taking screenshots and recording videos</summary>

  - Basic screenshots
  - Basic recording
  - Custom screenshot cameras?
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Working with volumetric data</summary>

  - Look up tables
  - Transfer functions
  - Timeseries
  - Generative models?
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Mesh processing and analysis</summary>

  - Importing and exporting meshes
  - Isosurface extraction (explanation of marching cubes)
  - Voxelization (explanation of voxelization)
  - Mesh smoothing?
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Making your first sciview script</summary>

  - Basic SciJava scripting with sciview
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Animating your scene and camera</summary>

  - Scripting animations
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Loading custom point clouds</summary>

  - Multiple ways to visualize point clouds
  - Default point cloud readers
  - Custom point cloud readers
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Working with 3D segmentation data</summary>

  - Working with label images
  - Creating meshes from labels
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Working with tracking data</summary>

  - Using TrackMate
  - Loading custom tracking data from file
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Working with SNT for neuron and filament tracing</summary>

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Working with complex datasets and YOUR data!</summary>

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Virtual and augmented reality</summary>

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Survey</summary>

  Please send to kyle.harrington@mdc-berlin.de and ulrik.guenther@hzdr.de

  - What you wanted to learn?
  - Do you want us to update you when features are added?
  - What features did you wish were available?

</details>
